so if you've never seen a star-nosed
mole before it can be quite shocking
probably the most noticeable feature is
that they have sort of like these
fingers growing out of their nostrils
sort of like how a dog would sniff for
prey on land these do it at the bottom
of swamps by blowing bubbles out of
their nose and the sucking the bubbles
back in really really fast to pick up
odors the first problem is that the
bubble would just float up if you
imagine having the nostrils at the
center and then all these gaps all
around it if you blow the bubble the
bubble is going to try to rise up
through all the gaps at the same time
and then the surface tension of the
bubble keeps the bubble in one piece
that keeps it centered on the nostril so
that the mole can then suck it back up
again so this behavior if you're not
looking for it then you're probably
never going to see it because it happens
in like a tenth of a second what we're
hoping is that if we better understand
how this mole does this connect it to
other characteristics with the American
water shrew and the Russian Desman and
we can figure out sort of core
characteristics that we can say look at
another mammal and be like okay you have
what it takes to do underwater sniffing
let's see if you can do it too because
we suspect that it this this behavior
might actually be much more common than
we think
you